hello YouTube just a quick DIY video if
you've got a smartphone or mp3 player
it's annoying when things run out and
you can get these from places like
mappings or Tesco's you know the lytic
alerts
it's basically a USB power supply you
plug in your phone or camera whatever
and you can charge it a couple of times
this one's quite a well quite a good one
in the specs it shows you percentage
left 170 and 31 USB outlet the downside
to this is it takes a lead which you
have to plug in here and if you lose or
don't just lead you can unlock a charge
it there are better ones out there that
charge via USB like the USB a in USB
type B type charges but this one is a 9
amp hour or nine thousand milliamp hours
types or capacity and it's quite good
it's quite heavy well-made what I'm
doing now is I'm making my own one with
some bits that anyone has laying around
except for possibly the battery so I'm
just going to start off with the bang if
you take a old laptop battery and
dismantle the battery end up with six to
nine decent-sized cells you buy these
are feeb a buy these computer shop
these were secondhand batteries and
they're still good so once you strip
them apart you can solder them in
parallel and over here we have eight
laptop battery cells in parallel there
are 2,000 million power each so eight
here makes sixteen thousand milliamp
hour or 16 amps 16 amps at one hour so
so if we these are just in a in a pack
for another project but we have
basically just Dean techniques coming
out and a switch but in order to be able
to charge this sales themselves and the
appliance or or piece of equipment you
want to charge then you're going to have
to increase the voltage from three point
seven to five volts same for charging
these cells you need five ops to charge
them now if I can find them all I had
earlier now this is the circuit board I
have bought this is an old one this is
one that I destroyed if Arnold is still
long enough you have two terminals focal
point got two terminals here negative
and positive for charging the three
point seven volt cells got two terminals
here for the battery positive negative
and on the other side you have a 5 volt
out positive and negative this one I
inadvertently put 12 volts on and blow
it up and the burn mark
is the fuse is gone pop anyway so that
one was no good so with that and instead
what I've come up with is a separate box
let's let the camera focus there we go a
separate box and to hold the electronics
now it's going to have a USB in two USB
outs from a cheap cable from Pearland so
plus then there and I just need to find
a suitable connector for the battery so
once this is finished this is just going
to sit on top of that with a bit of
velcro aren't too fast because I got
plans for some other circuit boards to
do other different things so won't
bother me too much that you can separate
them or yeah dismantle them and it might
even mean that I can have one charge
washing one eye
and Wi-Fi uncharged I mean I bought two
other circuit boards here which allow me
to charge the cells set up as they are
without having the USB out so I might be
able to do something with these later on
so I'm just going to click this up
button it up and I'm going to test it
for you
on show on the camera okay now just for
demonstration you can see their battery
voltage behind is three point eight nine
volts air connected on the green
crocodile clips positive negative and
that is the complete set up there -
clips because I can't find them we got
our USB to charge the device you've got
a USB outputs there got two of them
because I felt yeah
generous and positive negative going to
the battery release so current voltage
three point eight nine - where is it
that's in shock right okay
yep I plug this in this is charging off
the mains get my lightwei battery
voltage three four four point zero six
so it's charging the batteries I just
connect that off drops down so can
charge it off your mains if you're in
the if you're in your car and you've got
USB outlet here I've move this speckly
back into shop sign up a duck with me
fine shot
this bench has got rather crowded rather
quick because I'm not very good at
keeping things tidy right and you can
charge it in your car so if you plug the
device now into your car jack 12 volt -
5 volt USB put in 0.7 m at bound 12 volt
it's also charging and never bring you
here
we have a USB device here that needs to
be charged simply plug it in voltage
drop down to three point nine eight just
proves it's charging and if I disconnect
it from the car as well we are now
charging the USB device and we just
connected from the 12-volt and the USB
and the battery is dropped down to three
point seven two volts so I'm going to
button this up stick it on charge and do
some real testing with it so if you know
what I've done I might do a few more
videos on this light one more in-depth
video and any questions just put it in
the comment box below Cheers